---
layout: post
title: Week 5：Open Source Project Evaluation
---

## Thoughts about different projects  
I've looked at these projects, and regardless of their size, each part seems very organized, and the community communication is quite close. They all seem like healthy projects. One that is more closely related to me is Godot. I personally think it’s quite easy to learn (maybe because I’m a game developer), but the group’s evaluation of it was that 'this project is not very beginner-friendly.' I realized that people from different backgrounds can have very different perspectives on the same project. From the description in this group, it seems like this community is very busy, and everyone works efficiently together, giving the overall impression of a healthy and thriving project.  
<!--more-->  
## Thoughts about working on an open source project  
For me, what excites me most about working on an open-source project is seeing my contributions being recognized and used by the community. It's really motivating to know that something I created is helping people or making a difference.  

The biggest challenge I see is coordinating work within the team, such as deciding who handles which part of a feature on a given day. Since most open-source projects are driven by volunteers, not full-time developers, there can be a lack of motivation or delays in task completion. This can cause a chain reaction where one person’s unfinished work delays the tasks of others that depend on it.

I’m not sure if this is actually important, but in these evaluated projects, I sometimes found it hard to understand how bugs and features are connected or which issues certain tasks aim to address. If I were in charge of coordinating a project, I think I would find it quite challenging.

To overcome this, if I were to join a project midway, I would start by exploring several recent versions, reviewing issues, and going through pull requests. This would help me familiarize myself with the differences between versions and any major bugs. By understanding the project better, I would know how I can contribute to its development.